All right.
So in this lesson, we're going to introduce a complementary helper function from view called map mutations.
And you can probably guess what it helps us do.
Map State helps us connect view store state to component properties.
Map mutations helps us connect mutations to the View Store two methods on our main NAV component.
So before we get there, I do want to do one thing in our main nav component to set up our refactor.
You'll notice here that we have our log in user method and all that.
The log in user method does is commit a mutation to our store called log and user.
This is a reference to this string right here, which is defined right here.
It is log and user and we are referencing log in user right here as the click event to run whenever
the user clicks the action vote.
So when the user clicks log in, we're going to run this log in user method.
Here's what I'd like to do just to set things up.
Let's rename this method so it has the exact same name as our constant right here though, or more specifically,
this string right here.
So all that basically means is instead of calling it log in user in camel case, I'm just going to make
it all caps log in user.
Right.
And since we're now invoking this method down below, I'm going to change this method name to be log
in user all caps.
We're not changing anything specific to the implementation.
We're just changing the method name.
All right.
So now what do we have?
We have an implementation where we have a method name that is the exact same name as a mutation that
we want to run on our View X Store.
It's very similar to the set up we had in the previous lesson with our computed property.
We had a computed property called Is Logged In, which was referencing a property of the exact same
name on our state in our store called is logged in.
Now we have a setup where we have a very similar idea.
We have a method that is the exact same name as a store mutation and this is totally valid syntax because
we want a method honor component and that method is going to invoke the commit method on the store to
give it a mutation of a certain type.
This syntax again is so common in our view that there is the helper method to help you consolidate it
the exact same way that maps state helps you consolidate state properties on our component.
And the reason this is common is because you're typically going to give your component method a name
that is very similar or equal to your mutation name.
Because what does the mutation do?
It logs in the user.
So what is the user clicking the button represent?
It represents a log in of the user, right?
So why give it two different names?
Just call your method with the same name as the mutation.
And when you have syntax like this, we can consolidate all of these methods that commit mutations by
using the map mutations.
Helper So I'm going to scroll up.
And also from view X.
In addition to importing maps state, I'm going to import map mutations.
In fact, let me do it as the first import just because I want it to be in alphabetical order.
So map mutations and map state and I'm going to scroll down and I'm going to comment out this code right
here simply because I want you to see the before and after.
So I'm going to use map mutations here.
It's going to have the exact same structure as Map State.
So it's going to return an object of methods.
And I want to restructure those methods so they are available in my top level methods object right here.
So I'm always going to use this syntax for the return value of the map mutations function and the map
mutations function takes the exact same arguments as map state, so we could provide a object here with
properties as well as functions or an object with properties as well as strings.
But as we saw, the easiest approach is typically an array, and in that array we provide the mutations
that we want to make available.
And what NAT mutations is going to do is it's going to take those mutation names and it's going to make
them available as methods on my main nav component.
So if I type in my log in user constant, that is a reference to some mutation on my store.
And so now I'm going to have a this that logging user method available on main.
Now we are going to have a failing test that we're going to talk about that in the very next lesson.
But this is replacing what we have right here.
It's the exact same thing but expressed in one line.
So obviously if you have five different methods that all have the same name as a mutation, you can
simply say map mutations.
Take this array of five mutations that I know exist and make those five mutations available as methods
on my main nav component.
So now I will have a this log user method available on my component.
And what that is going to do is run this mutation not automatically, but by of course running the commit
method and passing that logging user mutation to it.
So behind the scenes we're still going to call the commit method on the store.
This is just a little bit of a syntactical shortcut, some syntactic sugar to do what we're doing here.
You do map mutations, you do an array and you provide the mutation names here and view and map mutations
makes that available as a method.
So when I remove this, we can still reference log in user here because log in user will be a valid
method defined in my main nav component.
It is defined by my map mutations helper function.
We we take that method in an object and then we restructure it.
So it's available in a top of all methods.
We're going to come back to this test in a second.
But I do want to show you in the browser, in the browser, if I refresh this page and I click sign
in, we can see everything still works.
Remember when I click sign in, that's when I issue the mutation to the View store to update the IS
logged in property.
This tells me that I'm still correctly shoot at shooting off the mutation, which means that I am running
that method which is defined by nat mutations, which is invoked by the user clicking this button.
So everything is still working.
We've simply created a shortcut for our former more verbose syntax.
So let me remove this comment right here and the very next lesson, and we'll see how we can fix our
test failure.